Question 1.

Run process-run.py with the following flags: -l 5:100,5:100.
What should the CPU utilization be (e.g., the percent of time the
CPU is in use?) Why do you know this? Use the -c and -p flags to
see if you were right.

Solution:

100% cpu utilization, because we set the chance of using the cpu for both processes to 100% using the -l flags

Question 2.

Now run with these flags: ./process-run.py -l 4:100,1:0.
These flags specify one process with 4 instructions (all to use the
CPU), and one that simply issues an I/O and waits for it to be done.
How long does it take to complete both processes? Use -c and -p
to find out if you were right.

Solution:

p1: 4(CPU)
p2: 1(CPU)
p2: 5(IO)
p2: 1(CPU)

11 clock ticks

Question 3.

Switch the order of the processes: -l 1:0,4:100. What happens
now? Does switching the order matter? Why? (As always, use -c
and -p to see if you were right)

Solution:

p1:1(CPU)
p2:4(CPU)
p1:1(IO)
p1:1(CPU)

7 clock ticks

Question 4.

We’ll now explore some of the other flags. One important flag is
-S, which determines how the system reacts when a process issues an I/O. With the flag set to SWITCH ON END, the system
will NOT switch to another process while one is doing I/O, instead waiting until the process is completely finished. What happens when you run the following two processes (-l 1:0,4:100
-c -S SWITCH ON END), one doing I/O and the other doing CPU
work?

Solution:

When the first process is blocked during the IO the CPU will not work on the second process. This brings the total time back to 11 ticks.

Question 5.

Now, run the same processes, but with the switching behavior set
to switch to another process whenever one is WAITING for I/O (-l
1:0,4:100 -c -S SWITCH_ON_IO). What happens now? Use -c
and -p to confirm that you are right.

Solution:

Now when waiting for IO the process is switched, bringing the total time to 7 ticks

Question 6.

One other important behavior is what to do when an I/O completes. With -I IO RUN LATER, when an I/O completes, the process that issued it is not necessarily run right away; rather, whatever was running at the time keeps running. What happens when
you run this combination of processes? (./process-run.py -l
3:0,5:100,5:100,5:100 -S SWITCH_ON_IO -c -p -I
IO_RUN_LATER) Are system resources being effectively utilized?

Solution:

No because the 3 CPU processes all work during the first waiting for the IO, it would be better to spread them out on the 3 IO calls

Question 7.

Now run the same processes, but with -I IO RUN IMMEDIATE set,
which immediately runs the process that issued the I/O. How does
this behavior differ? Why might running a process that just completed an I/O again be a good idea?

Solution:

It has a better CPU utilization of 100%
